New pages (#238)
NilPointer-Software/bdfd-wiki: src/guides/variables.md

# Variables Guide

## Introduction

> Variables are how we store data in BDFD. Data can be assigned to users, servers, channels and globally. Each variable has two elements, which we will breakdown in this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variables are how we store data in BDFD. Data can be assigned to users, servers, channels, and globally. Each variable has two elements, which we will breakdown in this section.
```

### Variable Elements

> - `name` - The name of the variable. This can't be modified by the bot, its used to "call" the current variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Name`: The name of the variable. This can't be modified by the bot, its used to "call" the current variable.
```

> - `value` - The value of the variable. This can be modified by the bot, its returned when the variable name is called in `$getVar`/`$getUserVar`/`$getServerVar`/`$getChannelVar`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Value`: The value of the variable. This can be modified by the bot, its returned when the variable name is called in `$getVar`/`$getUserVar`/`$getServerVar`/`$getChannelVar`.
```

>  ### Creating Variables 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating Variables
```

2. Go to "Variables" tab.

    ![ex2](https://i.ibb.co/ng3yJNn/Screenshot-20220717-132641.png)
3. Then, click "+ New variable" button.

     ![ex3](https://i.ibb.co/Mc0nL0b/Screenshot-20220717-133047.png) 
4. Give the variable a name and value. 

     ![ex4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413362-99e23e07-b01a-4ded-8be3-454837cb1ca5.png) 
5. Finally, save the changes! 

    ![ex5](https://i.ibb.co/dbpJDmr/Screenshot-20220717-133424.png) 
 
### Editing Variables
Here's how you can modify an existing variable's name/default value:

1. Select the bot you want to edit the variable for.
2. Go to "Variables" tab.

    ![ex2](https://i.ibb.co/ng3yJNn/Screenshot-20220717-132641.png)
3. Click the edit/pencil icon near the variable name that you want to edit.

    ![ex3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413529-b4f1fce6-a0fc-4962-b67c-94020d37a858.png)
4. Provide a new variable name and/or value.

    ![ex4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413336-3a0c376c-fa30-435f-b5e4-74100ca0859a.png)
5. Finally, save the changes!

    ![ex5](https://i.ibb.co/dbpJDmr/Screenshot-20220717-133424.png)

>  ### Deleting Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deleting Variables
```

Here's how you can delete variables:

1. Select the bot you want to delete the variable for.
2. Go to "Variables" tab.

    ![ex2](https://i.ibb.co/ng3yJNn/Screenshot-20220717-132641.png)
3. Select the variable you want to delete.

    ![ex3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413671-48dfae45-50e1-446a-843d-46513123a33c.png)
4. Finally, confirm the deletion!

    ![ex4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413742-e9fef40c-01e8-4713-9e61-99d71c2d88f7.png)

> 📌 Deleting variables might return error message in those commands which were using the deleted variables.

## Global/Global-User Variables
[`$setVar`](../bdscript/setVar.md)/[`$getVar`](../bdscript/getVar.md) are global variable functions, this means they apply to universally *(i.e they don't change per-server or per-user)*.\
However, if you provide a user ID in the optional `User ID` parameter then it becomes a global-user variable.

Global-user variables value stay with the user in every server. The usage of global-user variables looks like this:
- `$setVar[Variable Name;New Value;User ID]`

> - `$getVar[Variable Name;User ID]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`$setVar`](../bdscript/setVar.md)/[`$getVar`](../bdscript/getVar.md) are global variable functions, this means they apply to universally *(i.e they don't change per-server, per-channel, or per-user)*.\
However, if you provide a user ID in the optional `User ID` parameter then it becomes a global-user variable.

Global-user variables value stay same with the user in every server. The usage of global-user variables looks like this:
- `$setVar[Variable Name;New Value;User ID]`
- `$getVar[Variable Name;User ID]`
```

    ![ex2](https://i.ibb.co/ng3yJNn/Screenshot-20220717-132641.png)
3. Click the edit/pencil icon near the variable name that you want to edit.

    ![ex3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413529-b4f1fce6-a0fc-4962-b67c-94020d37a858.png)
4. Provide a new variable name and/or value.

    ![ex4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413336-3a0c376c-fa30-435f-b5e4-74100ca0859a.png)
5. Finally, save the changes!

    ![ex5](https://i.ibb.co/dbpJDmr/Screenshot-20220717-133424.png)

### Deleting Variables
Here's how you can delete variables:

1. Select the bot you want to delete the variable for.
2. Go to "Variables" tab.

    ![ex2](https://i.ibb.co/ng3yJNn/Screenshot-20220717-132641.png)
3. Select the variable you want to delete.

    ![ex3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413671-48dfae45-50e1-446a-843d-46513123a33c.png)
4. Finally, confirm the deletion!

    ![ex4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126413742-e9fef40c-01e8-4713-9e61-99d71c2d88f7.png)

> 📌 Deleting variables might return error message in those commands which were using the deleted variables.

## Global/Global-User Variables

> [`$setVar`](../bdscript/setVar.md)/[`$getVar`](../bdscript/getVar.md) are global variable functions, this means they apply to universally *(i.e they don't change per-server, per-channel, or per-user)*.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`$setVar`](../bdscript/setVar.md)/[`$getVar`](../bdscript/getVar.md) are global variable functions, which means they apply universally *(i.e they don't change per-server, per-channel, or per-user)*.\
```

![ex](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69215413/126411873-6f2ddfb2-d1b1-4000-a7c0-7c8a25ca3bf0.png)

### Channel Variables - Functions
- `$setChannelVar[variableName;newValue;(optional) channelID]` - Sets the provided variable to 'newValue' for the inputted 'channelID', or the channel that the command was ran in; if no 'channelID' was provided.
- `$getChannelVar[variableName;(optional) channelID]` - Gets the current value for the provided channel variable. Returns the current channel's variable value if no 'channelID' is provided.

### Channel Variables - Examples

Here's the variable we're working with:

![ex](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/113303649/202899818-b265e793-9a56-4a41-9539-9af01b622de8.png)

This command adds `1` uses to the 'Uses' variable value, everytime it is ran.

> > 🧙‍♂️ The trigger for this command will be your bot's prefix, example: `!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$setChannelVar[Variable Name;New Value;(Channel ID)]`: Sets the provided variable to 'New Value' for the provided 'Channel ID', or the channel that the command was ran in; if no 'Channel ID' was provided.
- `$getChannelVar[Variable Name;(Channel ID)]`: Gets the current value for the provided channel variable. Returns the current channel's variable value if no 'Channel ID' is provided.

### Channel Variables - Examples
Here's the variable we're working with:

![ex](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/113303649/202899818-b265e793-9a56-4a41-9539-9af01b622de8.png)

This command adds `1` uses to the 'Uses' variable value, everytime it is ran.

> 📌 The trigger for this command will be your bot's prefix, example: `!`.
```
